the Israeli government has approved a
deal for the release of captives held by
Hamas in Gaza prime minister Benjamin
netanyahu's office has released a
statement saying 50 women and children
will be released over a period of four
days during which there will be pauses
in fighting it comes after weeks of
negotiations mediated by katar but
Netanyahu has vowed to continue the
war there is Idle talk outside as if
after the truths to return our abductees
we'll stop the war so I'd like to make
it clear we are at War and we'll
continue with the war we'll continue
until we achieve all our objectives
eliminate Hamas return all our abductees
and missing persons and ensure there'll
be no element in Gaza that threatens
Israel let's get the view from occupied
East Jerusalem ham salut joins us live
from there so hamda despite some
opposition the vote finally went through
what more do we know about the
deal right Meen after around six hours
of discussions and debate in the Israeli
Parliament the vote finally went through
to accept this deal that will see the
release of 50 captives who are women and
children in exchange for a 4-day pause
in the fighting however the Israeli
government statement did did not
stipulate any of the conditions that
they have agreed to for the Palestinians
but it rather went on to say that they
are hoping to release all of their
captives and that this is a step in the
right direction however in the statement
Hamas released shortly after the Israeli
government's decision they released a
lot of the details that were reportedly
part of the
negotiations which include the release
of 50 captives who are women and
children the release of 50 Palestinian
prisoners who are women and children a
complete pause in the fighting this
means that Israel will not allow any
military vehicles into Gaza there will
be no drones flying over the southern
part of the Gaza Strip for the entirety
of the 4 days and for the northern part
of the Gaza Strip from 10: a.m. to 400
p.m. for those 6 hours there will be no
air traffic there additionally Hamas has
said that Israel agreed to not attack or
arrest any Palestinian Fighters inside
of the Gaza Strip for these four days
asking additionally they said for
hundreds of trucks of humanitarian Aid
and Fuel and additionally freedom of
movement for Palestinians on salahadin
road where we have seen hundreds of
thousands of Palestinians go from the
north to the South evacuating that heavy
Israeli bombardment now all of this is
stipulated in those agreements but the
Israelis have not yet released what they
have agreed to this is all coming from
the statement from Hamas but after 6
hours of discussion the Israeli
government was clear about one thing
that this is a simply a temporary pause
in the fighting and it is in no way an
indication to the end of the war but
rather that the Israeli Army will
regroup in these four days and continue
their ground operation continue their
Air Raids and continue with full force
until they have achieved all of their
objectives which include the return of
all of the captives and the complete
dismantlement of Hamas both militarily
and politically okay thank you for that
ham salut there for us in occupied East
jerusalm let's get the view from the
United States we can speak to Mike
Hannah in Washington DC Mike so the
Israeli cabinet finally approving this
deal presumably this takes some pressure
of the Biden Administration the US has a
lot riding on the steel isn't
it yes indeed the US Administration
invested a lot in this deal it played an
active role in a number of the
negotiations President Biden himself
went to Israel in person you also had a
situation where American diplomats were
traveling widely through the region an
important point of contact in terms of
getting all the parties together using
leverage in some quarters and certainly
this is something that is going to be
deeply welcomed by the Biden
Administration now I believe you were
briefed by a senior Us official uh what
did he have to tell
you well it's astonishing actually the
depth of the diplomacy that was involved
in this whole process it's a process
that took weeks and one must remember
too is that you're dealing here with
governments but you are also dealing
with a non-state actor in the form of
Hamas now these negotiations were
ongoing very difficult obviously since
many of them are not face to face they
threw contacts cutter playing an
absolutely critical role in all of this
at one stage says the official Hamas
went completely dark the whole process
ground to a halt and at that stage
President Biden personally called the
Emir of Qatar and that was beginning to
unravel and at that stage the deal began
to come back together again and what is
very interesting in terms ter of the
briefing from that senior official is
the degree to which President Biden was
personally involved and handson the
administration officials saying that
Biden was being brief from hour to hour
about what was happening he phoned or
spoke to Benjamin Netanyahu at least 14
occasions he spoke to president CCE he
spoke to the Emir of Qatar and this all
helped bring the situation together and
also restarted the process once it
appeared to come to a halt now the
official also made clear that from the
announcement of the deal to the
implementation could take as much as 24
hours saying that it looks as though the
hostages will begin to be released
Thursday morning uh local time and that
at that particular stage we're looking
at maybe a multi-day period in which the
hostages are brought back those who are
captured are brought back and the
Palestinian prisoners are being released
now the official also said uh that there
are still some uh tees to cross and some
eyes to Dot and that is going to be done
back in qter before the full details of
this deal emerg but certainly it's been
a painstaking process involving a number
of countries a number of governments and
that one non-state actor amas but most
importantly it appears the massive role
that President Biden personally played
in reaching this agreement Mike very
interesting to talk to you Mike Hannah
our correspondent there in Washington DC
well we can speak now to James dorsy
he's an honorary fellow National
University of Singapore's Middle East
Institute he joins me now live from
Jakarta so still more details of this
deal emerging every minute what's your
reaction to what we've heard so
far well I think obviously it's
important to get whatever hostages when
can out and as much Aid into Gaza but
what this tells you is how difficult
things are going to be going going
forward with other words um once you get
to the question of releasing Israeli
military personnel held captive by Hamas
these negotiations are going to go more
become much more difficult my senses
that Israeli Prime Minister uh Netanyahu
was caught in a bind on the one hand
domestic pressure which wants the
hostages released and wants them
released now uh and on the other hand
the US pressure to uh allow for for a
truce and the Israeli fear of course
there is that Hamas would use that to
its military advantage in terms of U
regrouping restocking whatever it may be
but I think more
importantly Israel wants to come out of
this war as having as being seen as
having restored its deterrence
deterrence
capability what it's so far shown is its
destructive capabilities it has not yet
uh really succeeded in wiping out the
senior leadership of Hamas or uh to
paralyzing them and as long as it does
isn't able to do so the question of its
ability to deter uh and that's important
not just uh Visa the Palestinians and
Visa V Gaza but it's also uh in
incredibly important in ter Visa Iran
and in terms of its posture with the
Gulf States okay and in terms of this
deal uh we heard there from our
correspondent talking about you know how
Hands-On President Biden was in terms of
these negotiations and interestingly uh
before Netanyahu went into to discuss
the deal with his cabinet he thanked
President Biden for making the deal
sweeter for the Israelis how significant
do you think that
is I think it is significant and one of
the things that I think is also
significant in this it took significant
Israeli or us pressure to get this deal
done which really tells you what it's
going to take uh in terms of us pressure
to get something more permanent in place
if not a transition towards
Palestinian uh self-rule of some kind
you know Independence or control of Gaza
at
least um I mean on the plus side uh
welcome release uh for the people
involved in the fighting the
humanitarian situation uh we are hoping
that Aid will go through but prime
minister Netanyahu making very very
clear that the fighting is going to
resume obviously anything is welcome
that relieves uh pressure on
Palestinians even if it is only briefly
and uh brings the guns at least in some
area is to fall silent but I think
overall Israel is in no mood to end this
conflict or end this war uh at this
point it hasn't achieved its objectives
yet uh and it also so it and not only
for the reasons of deterrence but at
this point it also needs Victory because
it's lost the information war and uh so
Israel has every interest in continuing
this conflict and I think that's what uh
uh that's what Netanyahu made
clear really good to get your
perspective James dorsy honorary fellow
National University of Singapore's
Middle East Institute speaking to us
there from Jakarta thank you for having
me